docs/cli/onboard.md, before:

---
summary: "CLI reference for `openclaw onboard` (interactive onboarding wizard)"
read_when:
  - You want guided setup for gateway, workspace, auth, channels, and skills
title: "onboard"
---

# `openclaw onboard`

Interactive onboarding wizard (local or remote Gateway setup).

## Related guides

- CLI onboarding hub: [Onboarding Wizard (CLI)](/start/wizard)
- Onboarding overview: [Onboarding Overview](/start/onboarding-overview)
- CLI onboarding reference: [CLI Onboarding Reference](/start/wizard-cli-reference)
- CLI automation: [CLI Automation](/start/wizard-cli-automation)
- macOS onboarding: [Onboarding (macOS App)](/start/onboarding)

## Examples

```bash
openclaw onboard
openclaw onboard --flow quickstart
openclaw onboard --flow manual
openclaw onboard --mode remote --remote-url ws://gateway-host:18789
```

Non-interactive custom provider:

```bash
openclaw onboard --non-interactive \
  --auth-choice custom-api-key \
  --custom-base-url "https://llm.example.com/v1" \
  --custom-model-id "foo-large" \
  --custom-api-key "$CUSTOM_API_KEY" \
  --secret-input-mode plaintext \
  --custom-compatibility openai
```

`--custom-api-key` is optional in non-interactive mode. If omitted, onboarding checks `CUSTOM_API_KEY`.

Store provider keys as refs instead of plaintext:

```bash
openclaw onboard --non-interactive \
  --auth-choice openai-api-key \
  --secret-input-mode ref \
  --accept-risk
```

With `--secret-input-mode ref`, onboarding writes env-backed refs instead of plaintext key values.
For auth-profile backed providers this writes `keyRef` entries; for custom providers this writes `models.providers.<id>.apiKey` as an env ref (for example `{ source: "env", id: "CUSTOM_API_KEY" }`).

Non-interactive `ref` mode contract:

- Set the provider env var in the onboarding process environment (for example `OPENAI_API_KEY`).
- Do not pass inline key flags (for example `--openai-api-key`) unless that env var is also set.
- If an inline key flag is passed without the required env var, onboarding fails fast with guidance.

Interactive onboarding behavior with reference mode:

- Choose **Use secret reference** when prompted.
- Then choose either:
  - Environment variable
  - Encrypted `sops` file (JSON pointer)
- Onboarding performs a fast preflight validation before saving the ref.
  - If validation fails, onboarding shows the error and lets you retry.

Non-interactive Z.AI endpoint choices:

Note: `--auth-choice zai-api-key` now auto-detects the best Z.AI endpoint for your key (prefers the general API with `zai/glm-5`).
If you specifically want the GLM Coding Plan endpoints, pick `zai-coding-global` or `zai-coding-cn`.

```bash
# Promptless endpoint selection
openclaw onboard --non-interactive \
  --auth-choice zai-coding-global \
  --zai-api-key "$ZAI_API_KEY"

# Other Z.AI endpoint choices:
# --auth-choice zai-coding-cn
# --auth-choice zai-global
# --auth-choice zai-cn
```

Non-interactive Mistral example:

```bash
openclaw onboard --non-interactive \
  --auth-choice mistral-api-key \
  --mistral-api-key "$MISTRAL_API_KEY"
```

Flow notes:

- `quickstart`: minimal prompts, auto-generates a gateway token.
- `manual`: full prompts for port/bind/auth (alias of `advanced`).
- Local onboarding DM scope behavior: [CLI Onboarding Reference](/start/wizard-cli-reference#outputs-and-internals).
- Fastest first chat: `openclaw dashboard` (Control UI, no channel setup).
- Custom Provider: connect any OpenAI or Anthropic compatible endpoint,
  including hosted providers not listed. Use Unknown to auto-detect.

## Common follow-up commands

```bash
openclaw configure
openclaw agents add <name>
```

<Note>
`--json` does not imply non-interactive mode. Use `--non-interactive` for scripts.
</Note>

Commit message:

docs(secrets): align provider model and add exec resolver coverage

docs/cli/onboard.md, after:

---
summary: "CLI reference for `openclaw onboard` (interactive onboarding wizard)"
read_when:
  - You want guided setup for gateway, workspace, auth, channels, and skills
title: "onboard"
---

# `openclaw onboard`

Interactive onboarding wizard (local or remote Gateway setup).

## Related guides

- CLI onboarding hub: [Onboarding Wizard (CLI)](/start/wizard)
- Onboarding overview: [Onboarding Overview](/start/onboarding-overview)
- CLI onboarding reference: [CLI Onboarding Reference](/start/wizard-cli-reference)
- CLI automation: [CLI Automation](/start/wizard-cli-automation)
- macOS onboarding: [Onboarding (macOS App)](/start/onboarding)

## Examples

```bash
openclaw onboard
openclaw onboard --flow quickstart
openclaw onboard --flow manual
openclaw onboard --mode remote --remote-url ws://gateway-host:18789
```

Non-interactive custom provider:

```bash
openclaw onboard --non-interactive \
  --auth-choice custom-api-key \
  --custom-base-url "https://llm.example.com/v1" \
  --custom-model-id "foo-large" \
  --custom-api-key "$CUSTOM_API_KEY" \
  --secret-input-mode plaintext \
  --custom-compatibility openai
```

`--custom-api-key` is optional in non-interactive mode. If omitted, onboarding checks `CUSTOM_API_KEY`.

Store provider keys as refs instead of plaintext:

```bash
openclaw onboard --non-interactive \
  --auth-choice openai-api-key \
  --secret-input-mode ref \
  --accept-risk
```

With `--secret-input-mode ref`, onboarding writes env-backed refs instead of plaintext key values.
For auth-profile backed providers this writes `keyRef` entries; for custom providers this writes `models.providers.<id>.apiKey` as an env ref (for example `{ source: "env", provider: "default", id: "CUSTOM_API_KEY" }`).

Non-interactive `ref` mode contract:

- Set the provider env var in the onboarding process environment (for example `OPENAI_API_KEY`).
- Do not pass inline key flags (for example `--openai-api-key`) unless that env var is also set.
- If an inline key flag is passed without the required env var, onboarding fails fast with guidance.

Interactive onboarding behavior with reference mode:

- Choose **Use secret reference** when prompted.
- Then choose either:
  - Environment variable
  - Configured secret provider (`file` or `exec`)
- Onboarding performs a fast preflight validation before saving the ref.
  - If validation fails, onboarding shows the error and lets you retry.

Non-interactive Z.AI endpoint choices:

Note: `--auth-choice zai-api-key` now auto-detects the best Z.AI endpoint for your key (prefers the general API with `zai/glm-5`).
If you specifically want the GLM Coding Plan endpoints, pick `zai-coding-global` or `zai-coding-cn`.

```bash
# Promptless endpoint selection
openclaw onboard --non-interactive \
  --auth-choice zai-coding-global \
  --zai-api-key "$ZAI_API_KEY"

# Other Z.AI endpoint choices:
# --auth-choice zai-coding-cn
# --auth-choice zai-global
# --auth-choice zai-cn
```

Non-interactive Mistral example:

```bash
openclaw onboard --non-interactive \
  --auth-choice mistral-api-key \
  --mistral-api-key "$MISTRAL_API_KEY"
```

Flow notes:

- `quickstart`: minimal prompts, auto-generates a gateway token.
- `manual`: full prompts for port/bind/auth (alias of `advanced`).
- Local onboarding DM scope behavior: [CLI Onboarding Reference](/start/wizard-cli-reference#outputs-and-internals).
- Fastest first chat: `openclaw dashboard` (Control UI, no channel setup).
- Custom Provider: connect any OpenAI or Anthropic compatible endpoint,
  including hosted providers not listed. Use Unknown to auto-detect.

## Common follow-up commands

```bash
openclaw configure
openclaw agents add <name>
```

<Note>
`--json` does not imply non-interactive mode. Use `--non-interactive` for scripts.
</Note>
